# Energy Data Analyzer
Technology Used: Java, Servlets, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, MS SQL SERVER 2012

Energy Data Analyzer is a java based web application to 
  1. Compare historical energy data of major countries in world for the past decade in the form of interactive graphs.
  2. Forecast future energy data required by countries.
  3. Allows user to download/save graphics as PDF file.
  4. Stores all graphs generated by user and displays it with quick view button in user dashboard.
  
Energy Data parameters included in the project are: 
* Population (Total), GNI per capita  
* Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)    
* Forest area (sq. km)    
* Energy use (kg of oil equivalent per capita)    
* CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)    
* Electric power consumption (kWh per capita)    
* GDP (current US$)   

Folder contents:
* build -> build deployment folder
* src -> java source code (implemented business logic in servlets)
* web -> WEB_INF folder along with all HTML pages and images required for web application (front end web pages)
* snapshots -> running application's screenshot for better understanding.

How to run the Application:
* Complete working of the application would be available only with localhost server running and MS SQL Server 2012 connection and required table structures essential for registration, login, profile, energy-data analysis/comparison.
* Web application requires Java to be installed.

Web Application (HTML Page information)
* index.html -> Index page for Energy Data Analyzer with brief summary and New User Registration Link and Sign In options.

* home.html -> Once user logs into the system successfully, user is taken to his home page.
    List of tabs in HOME page:
      1. Recent Activity: Displays all recent graph generations by user and link to quick view the graph representation.
      2. Profile: User profile page with his picture and additional informations.
      3. Analyze a Country Data: Allows user to compare energy data for one country and parameter
      4. Compare Two Country Data: Allows user to compare Comparison Energy Data between Two countries.
      5. Compute Energy Forecast: Allows user to project future Energy Data requirement for selected country.
      6. Help Page : With FAQ and snapshots for all operations required for using application.
    
* LoginFailed.html -> User lands in this page when log in authentication fails. System allows user to reset password.
